---
layout: page
title: Current Projects
---

## Scaling forest climate sensitivity 
Increasingly, scientists are using climate-tree growth relationships quantified from tree-ring data to project climate change impacts on forests. Local tree-ring measurements are often aggregated to produce an average time series that is representative of a larger region. This process of aggregation maximizes the common climatic signal in tree-ring time series while minimizing individualistic growth patterns such that climate emerges as a strong predictor of variability in ring widths, especially at broad spatial scales. However, the local variability in tree growth lost with aggregation contains important clues to forest resilience. For example, locations where tree-rings exhibit a weak climate signal may point to underlying processes buffering forests from climate change. Conversely, locations where trees exhibit a strong growth-climate signal may act as canaries in the coal mine, alerting forest managers to areas already under climate stress. I investigate whether aggregation causes biases in estimates of tree growth sensitivity to climate and influences projections of future tree growth. 

## Adapting agriculture for a hotter, drier world 
Without profound changes in current food production and arable land management practices, we face widespread hunger in a hotter future (IPCC 2019 https://www.ipcc.ch/srccl/). Arid zones are on the frontlines of the climate change food security crisis, already experiencing imminent threats to water availability, ecosystem services, economic security, and human health. I focus on the Sonoran Desert as a laboratory for the future, drawing upon the region’s native ecosystems and traditional knowledge to advance climate adaptation solutions for arid land food systems. As part of a diverse transdisciplinary team integrating plant, environmental, social, and health sciences, I evaluate the potential of Sonoran Desert plants as new crops for arid-adapted agriculture. When integrated into polycultures, desert plants have the capacity to improve agroecological and human health and resilience. 
